
•	Open Powershell as an administrator
•	Check whether you are using the right version of Windows( build has to be above 18362)
          systeminfo | Select-string "^OS Name","^OS Version"
•	Search bar --> Turn windows Features on or off
          Enable "Windows Subsystem for Linux" and "Virutal Machine Platform"
•	Run the command in Powershell
          "Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux"
•	Check the wsl version using "wsl -l -v" command
•	 to Install ubuntu
        1.	check available versions - "wsl -l --online"
        2.	Choose the right distribution and install "wsl --install -d Ubuntu-22.04"
        3.	If you face the error “0x800701bc “ then run the commands “wsl –set-default-version 2” and “wsl –update”
        4.	Open Ubuntu from the search bar
•	Check whether Python exists
        1. Type “python3” and exit()
      	2. Go back to wsl and install below 
        3. Install Pip 
              Sudo Apt-get update
              Sudo Apt-get install python3.10-venv
            	Pip install virtualenv
        4.	Create a virtual environment
              Python3 -m venv aws-learning
              Source/home/ramkumars2007/aws-learning/bin/activate

Setup AWS CLI:
•	Pip install awscli

Configure AWS CLI:
1.	Create a new IAM user in your AWS account console and enable programmatic access. 
2.	Run “aws configure” and enter your access key and secret – This creates default profile.
        a.	This creates a folder .aws with credentials and config
3.	If you are looking to create a profile for specific IAM user “aws configure --profile awslearninguser”. 
        a.	This will create a credentials with the profile for the IAM user.

Create Python Virtual Environment:
1.	python3 -m venv aws_venv
2.	source aws_venv/bin/activate
3.	pip install boto3
      a.	Validate 
            i.	import boto3
            ii.	s3_client = boto3.client('s3')
            iii.	s3_client.list_buckets()
Install Jupyter:
    1.	pip install jupyterlab
    2.	jupyter lab
Setup Cloud9:
    1.	Recommended to create Cloud9 User from IAM user accounts and not root accounts.
    2.	Create IAM group ITVCloud9 and attach admin policy to it.
    3.	Create an IAM user ITVCloud9User and add the user to the group ITVCloud9.
    4.	Login ad IAM user ITVCloud9User
    5.	Go to Cloud9 Console. 
    6.	Create Cloud9 Instance using Amazon Linux 2
    7.	We will use this instance to explore Amazon related services and they are well integrated with Amazon Linux 2 compared to other supported operating systems.




